update items set descr='TRI experiments have shown that equipping this unusual Amananth device on a spacecraft does appear to reduce the likelihood of Conflux attack.' where name='Antiflux';
update items set descr='The Ghost is the staple for any pilot wishing to do any kind of low-key travel away from friendly space.  Although fairly weak and simplistic, the 20%% reduction in radar range could buy a pilot a few precious seconds... perhaps enough to survive.' where name='Ghost';
update items set descr='Lexxor deals destruction on one hand and offers salvation with the other, by bringing this countermeasure to market.  Doubtless it will be most used against Lexxor\'s own high quality missile products.' where name='Jammer';
update items set descr='In order to promote trade, Amananth has introduced this missile defense system.  The Plasma Wave Defense 100 is, as the name would suggest, a plasma shockwave generator that destroys any missiles within 1500 meters.  The plasma wave is generated using the ship\'s own fuel supply as raw material.' where name='PWD100';
update items set descr='The Shade represents a major breakthrough in ECM technologies.  By offering a 34%% reduction in radar range, the Shade can keep you hidden even in the most dangerous areas of space.' where name='Shade';
update items set descr='The Specter improves on the Ghost\'s abilities, giving a pilot even more stealth in space.  With an extended effective counter measure range of 25%%, the Specter is a worth while upgrade for any pilot.' where name='Specter';
update items set descr='When the first Whistles were found at Amananth station, a printed warning was found on the container label: "Conflux whistle. Place aboard vessel at own risk."  As advertised, these devices appear to attract the attention of Conflux.' where name='Whistle';
update items set descr='The Wraith provides the pilot with a 30%% reduction in the effective range of the targeting ships radar.' where name='Wraith';
update items set descr='The Banker is an upgrade to the prototypical Broker.  Venurian Prospecting has demonstrated that their technology is quite effective and this new mining laser is almost twice as powerful as the Broker.' where name='Banker';
update items set descr='A gauss cannon from Doratorr, the Barrak is a good balance between damage, energy use and rate of fire.  Get a couple and try them out. You will not be disappointed.' where name='Barrak';
update items set descr='Cromforge Enterprises\' introductory laser, the Bender is one of the most widely used weapons in the 5 systems.  Although a couple of Benders won\'t get you that far, it can ward off a close range attacker until you fly to safety.' where name='Bender';
update items set descr='Ship based mining lasers are a technology that provides the economic backbone for much of the Quantar spacefaring community.  A mining beam combines a pulsed excimer laser to remove small chunks of asteroids, along with a tractor beam collection system.  The Broker is the early, bulky version, but it is affordable.' where name='Broker';
update items set descr='The tradeoff is simple... a bit more power takes a bit more power.  For the more intermediate pilot, the Calefactor is a good way to learn how to balance fire power with accuracy.' where name='Calefactor';
update items set descr='Not only one of the fastest projectile weapons in the known systems, the Cobra also fires two rounds at once.  An experienced pilot with a Cobra can tear through any intervening armor in no time.' where name='Cobra';
update items set descr='The Cracker is Quantar\'s stock equipment mining laser, and is a modified Broker for cheap production purposes.  All Quantar pilots are given this as part of their starter package.  TRI subsidizes production of this model, and therefore it cannot be legally traded or sold for much value.' where name='Cracker';
update items set descr='T&P\'s upgrade to the Liar, the Dealer packs a bigger punch and can slice shields and melt through most armor in a reasonable amount of time.' where name='Dealer';
update items set descr='In response to demands for a longer ranged light weapon, T&P created a new class of weapon.  While still considered a small laser, the Deceptor has an extended life, giving it greater reach than standard light lasers.' where name='Deceptor';
update items set descr='Using more or less the same techniques to improve the coherence length of the phased array solid state lasers as its competitors, Cromforge none the less produced a slightly more efficent and rapid firing model.' where name='Distorter';
update items set descr='OPL\'s mining laser is a viable weapon, but only at insanely close range.  As a mining system it is exceeded by every other unit available in its class.' where name='Duster';
update items set descr='T&P\'s first feeble attempt at a mining laser.  It is usable and cheap, but not nearly as fast or efficient as Venurian Prospecting\'s base model.' where name='Excavator';
update items set descr='When every shot counts and damage is everything, the FeatherFire is the weapon of choice.  It recharges slowly and takes massive amounts of energy, but also inflicts incredible amounts of damage, and has a range advantage over conventional lasers.' where name='FeatherFire';
update items set descr='With the advent of the Light Miner class of spacecraft, a new mining laser named the \'Financier\' has been developed. The laser will fully take advantage of the mining ship\'s large gun hardpoints.' where name='Financier';
update items set descr='During the development of the Heavy Miner class of vessels, Venurian Prospecting was brought into design talks early in order to guarantee that effective lasers would be available for these ships.' where name='Financier Mk.II';
update items set descr='Dorator may be attempting to upstage Aristio with this weapon, which some claim to merely be a reverse-engineered Hitman with some minor improvements.' where name='Flail';
update items set descr='The Hammer is a medium speed, medium damage, medium cycle rate projectile gun.  Used well it will get your enemies medium dead.' where name='Hammer';
update items set descr='The long awaited Hitman was for a long time the subject of great debate.  Many weapon manufacturers including T&P systems maintained that it was an impossible piece of technology; but once again Aristio has lived up to the challenge.' where name='Hitman';
update items set descr='While more powerful than a flashlight, the Illuminator is not considered an especially powerful weapon.  It is more powerful than other conventional light lasers, and any edge in combat is a good thing.' where name='Illuminator';
update items set descr='Although faster and more powerful than the Calefactor, the Injustice carries with it a massive drain on energy. That being said, if energy is not a major concern this laser can do incredible amounts of damage in short periods of time.' where name='Injustice';
update items set descr='This gun is not really a weapon at all, rather it is a specialized targeting device that generates a beam of multiple wavelengths used in the investigation of wreckage.  When coupled with a matter displacer, it can be used to recover valuable artifacts.' where name='InSight';
update items set descr='When it comes to distance combat against enemy defenses, the Landlord can really collect.  It is vital to have percussive power in deep space combat and this item won\'t cost too much in credits or energy.' where name='Landlord';
update items set descr='Predicted to often be the last thing a Conflux sees, the Lastlight\'s extended range and fairly low power requirements make it a great complement to medium lasers, or as a stand alone weapon for smaller ships with limited available power.' where name='Lastlight';
update items set descr='A nice little laser cannon, the Liar is good for brief combat, or against ships with little or no shields.  If this is all you have, don\'t take on armies.' where name='Liar';
update items set descr='The LightFire is Octavius\'s stock equipment laser, and in a nutshell is a modified Illuminator.  All Octavius pilots are given this as part of their starter package.  TRI subsidizes production of this model, and therefore it cannot be legally traded or sold for much value.' where name='LightFire';
update items set descr='The Needle provides a pilot with serious fire power.  Make sure you have a decent amount of energy flow, since this little baby will drain you fast.' where name='Needle';
update items set descr='Consuming a huge amount of energy, the Nova also deals out a huge amount of punishment.  Word to the wise; don’t miss with this weapon, because you won\'t be able to fire again for a while, but with a direct hit not much more will be needed.' where name='Nova Mk.I';
update items set descr='Consuming a huge amount of energy, the Nova also deals out a huge amount of punishment.  Word to the wise; don’t miss with this weapon, because you won\'t be able to fire again for a while, but with a direct hit not much more will be needed.' where name='Nova Mk.I';
update items set descr='T&P\'s updated long range mortar.  The enemy will hardly know where the shots are coming from.  Remember T&P\'s motto for this gun: \'If You Can\'t Dealer, Peeler.\'' where name='Peeler';
update items set descr='During the development of the Heavy Miner class of vessels, Venurian Prospecting was brought into design talks early in order to guarantee that effective lasers would be available for these ships.' where name='Prospector';
update items set descr='The Rasp is a powerful but slow mortar weapon which can be fired over long distances with some degree of accuracy.  It is best used for considerable damage from long range, then move in for the kill.' where name='Rasp';
update items set descr='The S-W-28 is Solrain\'s stock equipment laser, and is basically a modified Liar.  All Solrain pilots are given this as part of their starter package.  TRI subsidizes production of this model, and therefore it cannot be legally traded or sold for much value.' where name='S-W-28';
update items set descr='Annihilitech\'s pride and joy, a ship with two Senators is nothing to negotiate with.  The concussion caused by this mortar weapon will blow your foe to pieces in a few hits.  One major disadvantage is the lack of speed, but if you land two or three rounds, that won\'t be a problem.' where name='Senator';
update items set descr='There\'s nothing more satisfying than some warm plasma at your side, kind of like a snuggly teddy bear.  Only this isn\'t a bear your enemies will want to hug.  The Serializer is the premier weapon, proudly brought to you by the best and brightest at PSI.' where name='Serializer';
update items set descr='With this release, Cromforge shows that its laser research program is still producing results.' where name='Shard';
update items set descr='The third addition in the T&P line of lasers, the Shark is both faster and more powerful than the Dealer.  If you need a little extra speed and firepower, it may be worth it.' where name='Shark';
update items set descr='Aristio\'s entry into the ion weapons field challenges Annihilitech\'s monopoly.  Regardless of business concerns, this more lightweight device promises to make ion guns very popular, especially among Quantar pilots.' where name='Spitfire';
update items set descr='Think of the Straker as a basic machine gun.  Although each projectile does relatively little damage, they can be fired with amazing succession without much drain on energy systems.  Make sure you get in nice and close before pulling the trigger.' where name='Straker';
update items set descr='The Thief is a devastating gravity displacement weapon.  Aristio is the first company to turn the gravity instability found in jumpgates into a lethal weapon.  Although the Thief is the first of its kind, manufacturers will be sure to take this technology to new heights and uses.' where name='Thief';
update items set descr='A ship armed with two Thorns and a good power supply is nothing to toy with.  One thing is certain, you don\'t want this Thorn in your side.' where name='Thorn';
update items set descr='No one knows how the technology really works, but rumor has it that Samsun has discovered a new mineral somewhere in Hyperial space.' where name='V.A.P.O.R.';
update items set descr='In making this improved heavy mortar, Tens and Piney appears to be making a bid to return the mortar class of munitions to viability.  Rumors are flying that an upgrade program may be offered for the older mortars.' where name='Vantage';
update items set descr='The Warper is closely related to the Bender.  With a faster fire rate and lower energy use, it will provide experienced pilots with a bit more protection when flying cargo or defense missions.  The penalty of course is size.' where name='Warper';
update items set descr='The Calypso is Cromforge\'s most popular guided missile and is standard on all Quantar ships.  It\'s relatively inexpensive for rookie pilots to purchase a few of these to keep foes at bay.' where name='Calypso';
update items set descr='For quite some time, T&P\'s Cutlass was the best missile around.  Over the years, many improvements have been made, most recently the addition of proximity fusing.  Thus the Cutlass is still a good mid-range missile.' where name='Cutlass';
update items set descr='TRI has released this simple yet long-awaited standard fuel pod system.  Extra fuel for afterburners allows faster travel between stations and enhances combat performance.' where name='DropTank';
update items set descr='The Glaive is an incredibly slow high yield missle, however its guidance system is highly advanced and it delivers the most damage of any TRI produced missile.' where name='Glaive';
update items set descr='The Grave Robber represents a more high-end product than the previous advances by Cromforge engineers.  Previous misfiring problems have now been solved.' where name='Grave Robber';
update items set descr='A Hatchet can inflict monster damage on any unfortunate pilot who gets in its flight path.  Its maneuverability is not the greatest, but if you catch a ship off guard, kiss it good-bye.' where name='Hatchet';
update items set descr='The HellRazor is a twin pack of Stilettos. The advantage over two Stilettos is that the two missiles share one guidance system and don’t take up as much space.  Plus, it looks really neat to see two missiles in formation.' where name='HellRazor';
update items set descr='It turns a little slow and it burns a little fast, but the Kataka does a ton of damage.  Make sure your target is either standing still or on a straight course… in the heat of combat, the Kataka is not the weapon of choice.' where name='Kataka';
update items set descr='Octave\'s premiere weapon and the universal code for \'don\'t mess with me.\'  Two Lances have been known to take down a fully padded Traveler.  Handle with care.' where name='Lance';
update items set descr='Torpedoes are some of the most powerful weapons in the systems.  Pilots must be careful, however, to put enough distance between them and their quarry, since the Long Sword needs time to track its target.' where name='Long Sword';
update items set descr='The Maul is an incredibly slow high yield missle, however its guidance system is highly advanced and it delivers the most damage of any TRI produced missile.' where name='Maul';
update items set descr='The only thing that needs to be known about the Morning Star bundle is not to be on the receiving side of it.  Lexxor has definitely outdone itself.' where name='Morning Star';
update items set descr='Another improvement in the area of guided missiles, the Purgatory represents big steps, especially in the area of maneuverability and damage.' where name='Purgatory';
update items set descr='T&P\'s first attempt to break out of the slumping propulsion market.  The Rapier has become the premier buy-in-bulk mass produced missile.  Not effective at long range and not powerful at short range, this missile will do little more then finish off a crippled ship, or scare off a weak opponent.' where name='Rapier';
update items set descr='The Sabre is an incredibly slow high yield missile, however its guidance system is highly advanced and it delivers the most damage of any TRI produced missile.' where name='Sabre';
update items set descr='The Screwdriver will really screw your opponents.  It does massive damage at long range and is very maneuverable.  It does, however, cost a shipload of cash, so use it sparingly.' where name='ScrewDriver';
update items set descr='The Sirrus is a pursuit missile.  It\'s fast, and able to chase down a fleeing target at range.  The disadvantage is that it comes with a heavy price tag.' where name='Sirrus';
update items set descr='A high damage, mid-range missile, the Sledge packs less of a punch than the Screwdriver and has less maneuverability.  Nevertheless, the Sledge enjoys good commercial success due to its price.' where name='Sledge';
update items set descr='The Smacker packs a powerful punch at close range.  Just like other rockets, however, the Smacker does not track its target, so pilots are encouraged to come in close for the kill.' where name='Smacker';
update items set descr='T&P doesn\'t mess around.  They decided to make a small, light, yet effective rocket and this is it.  It doesn\'t promise to do massive damage, but any ship can carry quite a few of them, and you won\'t need to sell your children for the price.' where name='Spear';
update items set descr='The Stiletto fills the Octavian need for a pursuit missile.  It\'s faster and more powerful than the Sledge, but not nearly as maneuverable, so make sure you have a good shot before letting it go.' where name='Stiletto';
update items set descr='The Stinger is OPL\'s base guided missile system.  Although limited in range and accuracy, a few Stingers will finish off a foe without too much difficulty.' where name='Stinger';
update items set descr='A thorough examination of sensor logs has allowed the Quantar science team to produce a device that tunes shield harmonics to provide improved protection against certain Conflux energy weapons.' where name='Abattis';
update items set descr='This Station MODx allows ships to be rearmed at an existing Pilot-Owned Station.' where name='Ammunition Shop';
update items set descr='TRI has manufactured BCUs or (Beacon Control Units) for each faction allowing them to reprogram the beacon to aim its transmitters to a factions main station allowing it to gather valuable information for a period of about 4 hours until the antenna array loses its alignment and must be reprogrammed.' where name='BCU-OCT';
update items set descr='TRI has manufactured BCUs or (Beacon Control Units) for each faction allowing them to reprogram the beacon to aim its transmitters to a factions main station allowing it to gather valuable information for a period of about 4 hours until the antenna array loses its alignment and must be reprogrammed.' where name='BCU-QUAN';
update items set descr='TRI has manufactured BCUs (Beacon Control Units) for each faction allowing them to reprogram the beacon to aim its transmitters to a faction\'s main station allowing it to gather valuable information for a period of about 4 hours until the antenna array loses its alignment and must be reprogrammed.' where name='BCU-SOL';
update items set descr='When activated, this automated construction kit rapidly builds a prefab station core with two MODx interface sockets for upgrades.' where name='BuildKit -2';
update items set descr='When activated, this automated construction kit rapidly builds a prefab station core with four MODx interface sockets for upgrades.  If activated when docked within a smaller station core, it will upgrade that core to a four-point station.' where name='BuildKit -4';
update items set descr='When activated, this automated construction kit rapidly builds a prefab station core with eight MODx interface sockets for upgrades.  If activated when docked within a smaller station core, it will upgrade that core to an eight-point station.' where name='BuildKit -8';
update items set descr='Another of TRI\'s targeting systems, the Bullseye provides intelligent vector prediction to an attacking pilot.  Combined with the VTC I, an ammunitions based attack can be up to 95%% effective under controlled weather conditions.' where name='Bullseye';
update items set descr='Using fusion technology licensed from Cromforge, Venurian Prospecting has turned an experimental neutrino pulse transmitter into a miner\'s best friend.' where name='DeepRadar';
update items set descr='The displacer is well named.  It generates a short range field that modifes the probability wave of the subatomic particles in an object in a predictable way.  When coupled with a targeting beam (such as the InSight), this allows a pilot to move an object several meters, say, into their cargo bay.' where name='Displacer';
update items set descr='The docking computer is designed to keep new pilots safe while they learn to fly in zero gravity.  Equipping this MODX will allow you to target a docking beacon which will activate the autopilot if you are within 350 meters of the beacon.' where name='Docking Computer';
update items set descr='Using advanced lithography techniques to produce smaller transistor geometry, OPL engineers were able to integrate the functionality of both the Bullseye and the VTC 1 into one unit.' where name='Duelist';
update items set descr='Amananth has released another amazing technology. The FlashFire represents the first in a new Classification of devices known as a Fuel Additive. This allows a ship a +200%% increase in engine thrust for a period of 10 seconds before the device is used up. This effect is not cumulative.' where name='FlashFire';
update items set descr='An adaptation of Quantar mining scoop technology, Venurian Prospecting has released this as a tool for magnetically bottling key gases, such as helium, while flying through particle clouds.  A minimum velocity of 400v is needed to activate the ramscoop field.' where name='FuelScoop';
update items set descr='The jumpgates that open into Conflux space have been artificially distorted in the hope of preventing Conflux crossing though.  This device allows a TRI jumpdrive to pass through the distortion safely.  It will burn out after two uses.' where name='GateKey';
update items set descr='A military reconnaissance tool used for taking detailed images of strategic targets, the Hawkeye\'s resolution and clarity outperform every other basic camera system.  This camera meets the basic requirements of photography scout missions.' where name='Hawkeye';
update items set descr='This Station MODx adds capacity to the market of an existing Pilot-Owned Station.' where name='Market Warehouse';
update items set descr='Venurian\'s technical relationship with Cromforge has again yielded fruit.  Using this laser collimator in tandem with any mining laser will boost the effectiveness of the mining beam.' where name='ML Amplifier';
update items set descr='A standard sensor package, complete with grav-field polarization and infrared spectrometry, although with a limited range.  This sensor meets the basic requirements of scanning scout missions.' where name='NockNock';
update items set descr='An old reliable, Optima technology has been around since before the Great Collapse.  T&P has taken care to continually update the brand..  This camera meets the basic requirements of photography scout missions.' where name='Optima';
update items set descr='The Oracle was originally applied in subcrust mineral analyzation in unknown asteroid belts.  The most recent version includes capabilities for manufactured object inspection, and meets the basic requirements of scanning scout missions.' where name='Oracle';
update items set descr='This Station MODx adds the ability to process ore into raw materials for an existing Pilot-Owned Station.' where name='Ore Silo';
update items set descr='In order to promote trade, Amananth has introduced this missile defense system.  The Plasma Wave Defense 100 is, as the name would suggest, a plasma shockwave generator that destroys any missiles within 1500 meters.  The system holds only a single charge, but can be reloaded upon docking with a modern space station.' where name='PWD100';
update items set descr='This Station MODx alows ships to be refueled at an existing Pilot-Owned Station.' where name='Refueling Tank';
update items set descr='This Station MODx allows armor repairs at an existing Pilot-Owned Station.' where name='Repair Shop';
update items set descr='This handy little device is another technological wonder to come out of Amananth.  The Rotacol is a positional readout device which can triangulate local coordinates relative to the jumpgates within a sector.  This little marvel is useful to cartographers, miners, and explorers alike.' where name='Rotacol';
update items set descr='An entry level sensor system, primarily for analyzing weaknesses in enemy defenses.  The range is less than desirable, but the upgraded solid-state E system will last a lifetime.  This sensor meets the basic requirements of scanning scout missions.' where name='SeaBear E';
update items set descr='This Station MODx adds a ship storage facility for four vessels to an existing Pilot-Owned Station.' where name='Ship Hangar';
update items set descr='This Station MODx adds storage capacity to an existing Pilot-Owned Station.' where name='Storage Warehouse';
update items set descr='Although The Reconstruction Initiative does not typically offer its technologies for sale, targeting computers have recently been introduced to the market under the TRI brand.  The VTC I provides a pilot basic vectoring information on targets in the Heads Up Display.' where name='VTC I';
update items set descr='Lexxor\'s companion to the Oracle, the Witness readily backs up any spectography and analysis with sharp, accurate, visual data.  This camera meets the basic requirements of photography scout missions.' where name='Witness';
update items set descr='The Antagonizer is a bargain version of the Instigator power plant, with a power output of roughly 85%% that of the Instigator and a significant drop in the price.' where name='Antagonizer';
update items set descr='A slightly better entry level generator, the Centerfuge Mk. I is the dinosaur of the power generator industry.  It is old but strong, and has come to be known as \'old reliable\' among seasoned Octavian pilots.' where name='Centerfuge Mk.I';
update items set descr='Continuing in the vein of \'oldies but goodies\' the Centerfuge Mk. II is a vast improvement on the Mk. I model, but the same facts still apply.' where name='Centerfuge Mk.II';
update items set descr='It may be true that OPL doesn\'t have the most creative marketing department.  Don\'t be fooled, the Mk. III is a serious upgrade from the Mk. II.  No one really knows what OPL will think of next, but some sources say the Mk. IV!' where name='Centerfuge Mk.III';
update items set descr='Giving a substantial boost in power output, Octave Propulsion Labs kept the cost down by allowing this powerplant to grow in size and mass.  However, the Mk.IV is a nice modern upgrade to the Centerfuge line, and matches up nicely against most of the competition.' where name='Centerfuge Mk.IV';
update items set descr='Thanks to de-classified pre-collapse artifact research and a growing demand for a powerplant with higher energy output, Octave Propulsion Lab is the first to produce a size 5 powerplant outside classified TRI labratories.' where name='Centerfuge Mk.V';
update items set descr='Quantar engineers provided this solid entry into the energy production arena.  While not a stellar performer, it does provide sufficient energy for 2 Shepherds, and enough to spare for other critical systems.' where name='Collector';
update items set descr='The Contender will provide a ship with enough energy for short to medium distance travel using basic equipment.  Be careful not to mix this low level power source with a high powered engine or weapon system, or you may find yourself stuck in an Adrillian grav-sink with two aster-cruisers dropping you like an angry Octavian sand crawler (not a good thing).' where name='Contender';
update items set descr='Solrain realized the need for an improved power production system for small ships.  This allows Solrain pilots the ability to keep their \'defensive\' systems fully charged.  While not a huge improvement, it maintains a great power/price ratio.' where name='Contender XL';
update items set descr='A very sophisticated design, the Contender XPR packs a whole lot of power into a small package.  Of course the price is nothing to sneeze at.' where name='Contender XPR';
update items set descr='Leading the way in efficient design, Cromforge introduced the Gatherer as the standard power generator on all Quantar based ships.  It will provide a decent amount of power for the least amount of space.  Beware though, that Octavian ships come equipped with quite a bit more power, so pilots are discouraged from getting into a pure fire power battle until they can upgrade.' where name='Gatherer';
update items set descr='Power generator technology is the one area Cromforge has been unable to make significant steps in regard to efficiency.  The Harvester provides a great deal of power, but is quite a bit bulkier than its Gatherer counterpart.  It is still 500 units lighter than the nearest competitor.  Cromforge engineers are feverishly working on this problem.' where name='Harvester';
update items set descr='Some may say that this reactor is outrageously expensive.  Amananth doesn\'t think so.  The best way to find out is to buy it.' where name='Instigator';
update items set descr='Amananth continues its preeminence in powerplant technology with this excellent but typically pricey model.' where name='Intimidator';
update items set descr='The Opal is Octavius\'s stock equipment powerplant, and in a nutshell is a modified Centerfuge Mk. I.  All Octavius pilots are given this as part of their starter package.  TRI subsidizes production of this model, and therefore it cannot be legally traded or sold for much value.' where name='Opal';
update items set descr='Cromforge managed to produce an enhanced powerplant as an upgrade to the Gatherer, producing nearly 50% more power, at the expense of size.' where name='Rake';
update items set descr='They say you reap what you sow. The Reaper is the finest fusion reactor available from your friends at Cromforge Enterprises.  It generates significant power for less mass than the competing Sport Plus, at a lower cost.' where name='Reaper';
update items set descr='The S-P-16 is Solrain\'s stock equipment powerplant, and is basically a modified Contender.  All Solrain pilots are given this as part of their starter package.  TRI subsidizes production of this model, and therefore it cannot be legally traded or sold for much value.' where name='S-P-16';
update items set descr='The Sport is the first upgrade to the original Scary design.  It provides quite a bit more power for being quite a bit larger, but pilots always make that tradeoff.  There are rumors that Aristio Conglomerate is working on a new form of crystal synthesis that will make it difficult for others in the energy industry to compete.  For now, this is a pretty good source for Solrain based ships.' where name='Sport';
update items set descr='The Sport Low Profile is a die-shrunk version of the Sport, giving Solrain a competitive power supply for the Interceptor.  It is heavier and more expensive than the other products of the same size class.' where name='Sport LP';
update items set descr='A significant upgrade to the Sport, the creatively named Sport Plus is almost twice as large as the original, and provides twice the power.' where name='Sport Plus';
update items set descr='The Spud is Quantar\'s stock equipment powerplant, and is a modified Gatherer for cheap production purposes.  All Quantar pilots are given this as part of their starter package.  TRI subsidizes production of this model, and therefore it cannot be legally traded or sold for much value.' where name='Spud';
update items set descr='Due to the demand for larger powerplants, TRI released the specs for this device.  Octave Propulsion is still smarting over the loss of market share for its Centerfuge Mk.V.' where name='TRIP-1';
update items set descr='Designed specifically for the Intensity, this is was the only shield of its size until the advent of the Cascade. It still offers far greater protection than the standard size 2 systems.' where name='Alpaa';
update items set descr='A giant leap forward in protection technology, the Canopy is intended for the serious space-swashbuckler.  If a pilot wishes to do deep space recovery missions, mining operation or the occasional \'hit and run\', don\'t leave home without a Canopy.' where name='Canopy';
update items set descr='Given the fact that many of the Solrain ship designs include a 3 cubic meter shield generator bay, T&P systems did not consider the market for an upscale shield of size 2 to be terribly important.  However, market research found a niche that could be filled with minimal engineering expense.  This resulted in the Cascade, a shield of size 3 that is not quite as powerful as the Alpaa, but with a price that is very moderate for this class of equipment.' where name='Cascade';
update items set descr='The Defier strikes the best balance in the upscale size 2 shield segment.  Compared to OPL\'s \'Resistor\', it loses only efficiency and gains in the areas of both recharge rate and total capacity.' where name='Defier';
update items set descr='The Deflector is a decent protection system for Octavian pilots.  As a matter of principal, Octavian pilots like to think that their targets are destroyed before a heavy shield is necessary, so think of the Deflector as a \'just in case\' piece of equipment.' where name='Deflector';
update items set descr='The Flatiron was originally conceived as a home security device against both natural and unnatural uninvited guests.  T&P Systems wasted no time in finding military application for the device and the large-scale version Flatiron was born.  Now considered the basic shield by all ship manufacturers, this device maintains market dominance in a competitive industry.' where name='Flatiron';
update items set descr='This piece of Amananth engineering caused great consternation among the armament manufacturers of TRI space when it appeared, though it was met with jubilation by the pilot cadre.' where name='Guardian';
update items set descr='The Haven provides pilots with a level of protection not seen before in a package of this size.  While the recharge rate is roughly equivalent to a \'Canopy\', the Haven can absorb nearly 25%% more abuse.' where name='Haven';
update items set descr='The Himelea provides Premia pilots with an affordable upgrade that takes advantage of the space available on the Premia without the cost and weight of a Rocky.  While it does not offer the protection of its heavier brother, it does demand less of the ship\'s powerplant.' where name='Himelea';
update items set descr='The Kydango is Quantar\'s stock equipment shield, and is a modified Pod for cheap production purposes.  All Quantar pilots are given this as part of their starter package.  TRI subsidizes production of this model, and therefore it cannot be legally traded or sold for much value.' where name='Kydango';
update items set descr='Although somewhat less efficient than the Resistor, the Makk will provide up to three times more protection.  Definitely enough to survive the next assault, or a few failed docking attempts.' where name='Makk';
update items set descr='Although significantly larger in size than the Rocky, the Mortar is more efficient and provides more deflection than its predecessor.  Definitely worth a look.' where name='Mortar';
update items set descr='The Omnus is Octavius\'s stock equipment shield, and in a nutshell is a modified Deflector.  All Octavius pilots are given this as part of their starter package.  TRI subsidizes production of this model, and therefore it cannot be legally traded or sold for much value.' where name='Omnus';
update items set descr='Primarily intended for protecting Quantar pilots from asteroid collisions, the Pod will not save you from an assault from a war party.  Think of the Pod more as an air bag than a shield.' where name='Pod';
update items set descr='Responding to complaints about the slow recharge rate of the Deflector model, OPL scraficed total capacity for a big improvement in restoration speed.  Dubbed the Protector, it offers Apteryx pilots a viable option for a reasonable price.' where name='Protector';
update items set descr='A good shield at a good price pretty much sums up the Resistor.  It\'s not quite as powerful as the Rocky, and regenerates less slowly, but for once OPL wins the award for most efficient design.' where name='Resistor';
update items set descr='T&P Systems long background in hazard solutions gives this product the competitive edge.  The Rocky is a good deflection system that will allow a ship to survive many direct blows from powerful weapons, even small asteroids.  Don\'t get too confident however, as a well placed shot from a Serializer or a hit from a Morning Star will turn the Rocky to virtual sand.' where name='Rocky';
update items set descr='The S-E-15 is Solrain\'s stock equipment shield, and is basically a modified Flatiron.  All Solrain pilots are given this as part of their starter package.  TRI subsidizes production of this model, and therefore it cannot be legally traded or sold for much value.' where name='S-S-13';
update items set descr='To produce an affordable upgrade in protection for the Storm, Cromforge sacrificed some efficiency for a 10 percent improvement in total capacity, and a small improvement in recharge rate.  This resulted in the Shelter, which many Quantar pilots laud, especially given the fact that the mass remains among the lowest of all shield units.' where name='Shelter';
update items set descr='Cromforge enters the lucrative force field market with the Shroud… a highly efficient and very effective way to keep Octavian feces off your hard earned rocks.  A must buy for any serious Quantar pilot.' where name='Shroud';
update items set descr='Just prior to the appearance of the Amananth Guardian, TRI made the Warden specs available for private construction.' where name='Warden';
update items set descr='Previously uninvolved in capacitor manufacture, Amananth made this device available with no fanfare at all.  Pilots simply found these waiting in the equipment bins by the docking bay.' where name='Alembic';
update items set descr='OPL proves once again that more is more.  Despite its bulky design, the Carrier is a very powerful capacitor, although perhaps not quite as efficient as Cromforge\'s production line.' where name='Carrier';
update items set descr='Samsun Universal decided to build a capacitor to provide a matching pool of energy to boost sales of plasma weapons.  While it isn\'t cheap, quality never is.' where name='Deepol';
update items set descr='It\'s a dense package, but it gives Quantar pilots the option to capitalize on the larger single gun hard point the Storm sports.' where name='Germ';
update items set descr='The Jar is somewhat of an outcast in the world of capacitors, having only fair energy storage, and very poor efficiency.  It is, however, only intended to fill a niche market, mostly for Albatross pilots, and the price is reasonable.' where name='Jar';
update items set descr='The Jug boasts no upgrade in capacity, but is a much smaller and lighter capacitor than the Tank.  It also has the significant benefit of being more efficient, meaning that it recharges faster.' where name='Jug';
update items set descr='Just as the rumors were flying, Cromforge released an even better capacitor.  Without any negative impact on efficiency, Quantar pilots now have access to 60% more capacity in their storage devices.  Look out Octavius scum!' where name='Keytso';
update items set descr='The Lifeline is an advanced capacitor manufactured by T&P.  This finely crafted capacitor is under exclusive license for Solrain forces to provide power storage which will sustain most of their basic systems.' where name='Lifeline';
update items set descr='Again, more is better.  This unit is simply a 20% upgrade in capacity to T&P\'s Mantra, at a small price in mass, efficiency and credits.' where name='Mana';
update items set descr='The Mantra is an adequate first-level capacitor made by T&P Systems.  It is standard equipment on all Solrain ships used by The Reconstruction Initiative.' where name='Mantra';
update items set descr='The Outlet is Octavius\'s stock equipment capacitor, and in a nutshell is a shrunk Tank.  All Octavius pilots are given this as part of their starter package. TRI subsidizes production of this model, and therefore it cannot be legally traded or sold for much value.' where name='Outlet';
update items set descr='The Pint packs punch.  If its power you need, this energy warehouse will give you more than enough.  Relax in the confidence that no rock licker you see is likely to have this kind of power storage.' where name='Pint';
update items set descr='Mixing the efficient design of the Mantra with a much improved version of the capacity storage technology seen on the Lifeline, T&P\'s Prayer is the answer to many Solrain pilot\'s need for increased capacity.' where name='Prayer';
update items set descr='The S-C-15 is Solrain\'s stock equipment capacitor, and is basically a modified Mantra.  All Solrain pilots are given this as part of their starter package.  TRI subsidizes production of this model, and therefore it cannot be legally traded or sold for much value.' where name='S-C-15';
update items set descr='The Seed is the classic Quantar ship capacitor manufactured by Cromforge Enterprises.  It is the most efficient basic capacitor in the systems, and should be adequate until more powerful ship systems can be afforded.' where name='Seed';
update items set descr='The Sponge is Quantar\'s stock equipment capacitor, and is a modified Seed for cheap production purposes.   All Quantar pilots are given this as part of their starter package.  TRI subsidizes production of this model, and therefore it cannot be legally traded or sold for much value.' where name='Sponge';
update items set descr='The Spore is an upgraded version of the Seed, providing the pilot with more than twice the power.  Cromforge continues to excel in capacitor production.' where name='Spore';
update items set descr='A massive energy warehouse, the Summoner puts the rest to shame.  However, Lexxor\'s star requires quite a bit of ship space.  This baby is mostly reserved for large fighters or freight carrier vessels.' where name='Summoner';
update items set descr='The Tank is one of OPL\'s bulky base energy storage devices for standard Octavius ships. Sometimes criticized for its size and inefficiency, it is the most powerful of the base level technology.' where name='Tank';
update items set descr='Based in part on studies of pre-collapse technology, TRI released manufacturing specifications for this device as an experiment in free enterprise.  Most corporations with an interest in capacitor manufacture are now believed to be reverse-engineering these devices.' where name='TRIC-1';
update items set descr='Designed to give the Intensity a bigger punch, this cap doesn’t live up to the competition in total power, but is available at relative discount price.' where name='Utterance';
update items set descr='Aluminum is a strongly gravipositive metal and extremely reactive.  Materials made of aluminum do not tarnish or rust.  Its high strength-to-weight ratio makes aluminum useful in the construction of spacecraft, g-based transports, satellites, and other applications in which mobility and energy conservation are important.' where name='Aluminum';
update items set descr='Ammunition crates may contain radioactive or standard bullet types of varying caliber.  Ammo has been universally standardized, so you won\'t have to worry about reloading while docking in foreign territory.' where name='Ammunition';
update items set descr='Antimony generally shows the properties of a metal, but sometimes shows those of a nonmetal.  It exists in several allotropic forms.  Liquid antimony has the exceptional property, when cooling, of expanding as it solidifies.  Antimony is used widely as a medicinal agent, in vulcanizing rubber, as a yellow pigment in glass and porcelain, and for bronzing steel.' where name='Antimony';
update items set descr='Your last line of defense against enemy firepower, asteroids, and docking tubes.  If this commodity is out of stock, you could be in for a risky trip to the next nearest station.' where name='Armor';
update items set descr='Barium is soft and silvery and reacts vigorously with water; it is rapidly corroded by moist air. barium has few practical applications, although it is sometimes used in coating electrical conductors in jumpgate ignition systems.  Barium compounds are used as a filler for rubber products, high-stress paint, and in tiling.  Barium nitrate is used in several types of conventional warheads.' where name='Barium';
update items set descr='Boron does not react with water or hydrochloric acid and is unaffected by air at ordinary temperatures.  It has several important applications in the field of gravitic energy, most notably in instruments designed to detect and count slow gravitrons, such as a control absorber in jumpgates, and as a constituent material of radiation shields.' where name='Boron';
update items set descr='Carbon has the unique ability to link with other carbon atoms to form complex chains and rings.  This property leads to an almost infinite number of carbon compounds, the most common being those containing carbon and hydrogen.  The isotopes carbon-13 and carbon-14 are used extensively as tracers in biochemical research, and in biological encryption apparatus.' where name='Carbon';
update items set descr='Cesium occurs naturally in lepidolite, carnallite, and certain feldspars.  Cesium oxidizes readily when exposed to air and is thus used to remove residual oxygen from vacuum chambers.  Because of its property of fluctuational gravity when exposed to light, it is used in the morphing nanotechnologies that make up liquid robots.' where name='Cesium';
update items set descr='Not the chemicals you\'re thinking of.  Scientific ones, man.  Chemicals have a wide variety of uses, ranging from fuel additives to food growth mediums.  These generic chemicals are often used on space stations as cleaners, solvents, and for a variety of industrial purposes.' where name='Chemicals';
update items set descr='Chromium is a common element.  The chief use of chromium is to form alloys with iron, nickel, or cobalt.  The addition of chromium imparts hardness, strength, and corrosion resistance to the alloy.  When deposited electrolytically, chromium provides a hard, corrosion-resistant, lustrous finish.  For this reason, it is widely used as body trim on spacecraft.' where name='Chromium';
update items set descr='Cobalt has a relatively low strength and little ductility at normal temperatures, but is ductile at high temperatures. thermally resistant super alloys containing cobalt are used in several types of industry and spacecraft gravity engines. Other commercial applications include construction of permanent magnets, cutting and machining steel, and may be used as a gravity fluctuation catalyst.' where name='Cobalt';
update items set descr='Mined ore with common construction metals including:  chromium, copper, aluminum, zinc, molybdenum, titanium, and iron.' where name='Common Metals';
update items set descr='Composites are metals and other elements which have been artificially melded to create a new element.  For example, bronze is a composite of copper and tin.' where name='Composites';
update items set descr='The decaying biomass of a Conflux being can be a useful component in weapons production because of its highly unstable properties.' where name='Conflux Biomass';
update items set descr='All ships, space stations, planet side homes, and factories are made of these materials.  This category includes glues, gravitic stabilizers, nuts, bolts, and aluminum alloy struts and supports.  An essential yet plentiful commodity.' where name='Construction Materials';
update items set descr='Because of its many desirable properties, such as conductivity, corrosion resistance, malleability and ductility, copper has long been used in a wide variety of applications.  The two most important alloys made with copper are brass and bronze.  Copper is also alloyed with gold, silver, and nickel to produce high-strength energy conduits, such as found in plasma based weaponry.' where name='Copper';
update items set descr='Every ship, every component, every machine runs on one or many CPUs.  30% of all CPUs are destroyed in guidance missiles, and 40% in ship crashes annually, creating a high demand and an even higher turn around.  A very important commodity if you can get your hands on them.' where name='CPUs';
update items set descr='Transistors, resistors, gravitors... all of these electronics are needed by any society beyond the nano-age.  Although electricity is a principle from prior to The Collapse, the ancient name for these building blocks of technology sticks to their contemporary counterparts.' where name='Electronics';
update items set descr='Erbium oxide is a compound slowly soluble in several mineral acids.  Neither the element nor its compounds were of any commercial value before the Great Collapse, but several experimental applications have opened up in the field of gravity displacement.  It has been speculated that the use of erbium in control-transformers in jumpgates could help stabilize transportation through them.' where name='Erbium';
update items set descr='Explosives are a valuable commodity no matter where you go.  A necessity for any projectile based weapons or warheads, and a dangerous cargo to boot.' where name='Explosives';
update items set descr='Fiber optics are a medium for carrying information from one point to another in the form of light.  Fiber optics do not require electric current to transmit, and are a very fast and efficient means of communication.' where name='Fiber Optics';
update items set descr='Fuel cells are used for energy storage in many important systems.  Fuel cells have been optimized and refined over the years to output the maximum possible energy at the lowest possible cost to the end user.  And best of all, they\'re rechargeable.' where name='Fuel Cells';
update items set descr='The low melting point and high boiling point of this element makes it the perfect metal to be used in space based engine controls, where temperature ranges are great.  Certain gallium compounds are excellent semi-fluxors, and have been used extensively in rectifiers, transistors, laser pulse generators and energy pulse generators.' where name='Gallium';
update items set descr='Luxury gemwoods are harvested from a rare variety of large flora native to Kapenja. The jadelike sheen and hardness of these woods cause them to be prized by craftsmen, and derived products are valuable on many worlds.' where name='Gemwoods';
update items set descr='Suitably prepared germanium crystals have the property of passing gravity fluctuations in one direction only.  These are used extensively in most deep space communication devices, such as ultra-high-frequency radio and radar signal detectors.  Germanium crystals also have other specialized uses, including the manufacture of optical glass and as a drug in the treatment of gravity induced disabilities.' where name='Germanium';
update items set descr='Pure gold is the most malleable and ductile of all the metals.  Finely divided gold, like other metallic powders, is black; colloidally suspended gold ranges in color from ruby red to purple. gold is extremely inactive.  It is unaffected by air, heat, moisture, and most solvents. in current times, gold is mainly used in the construction of parts of a wide-range of deep-space vehicles and emplacement.' where name='Gold';
update items set descr='Grain is the basic food source for humanoid life throughout all the known sectors.  Originally limited to production in high-g environments, new research methods have produced several synthetic strains which closely resemble the organics.  These synthetics are easily reproduced in low-g surroundings with minimal resources, and are probably the single-biggest factor in making deep space travel a reality.' where name='Grain';
update items set descr='Gravitational components are essential for all known propulsion drives, and are also used to create artificial gravity on capital ships and space stations.' where name='Gravitational Components';
update items set descr='Helium, like all other noble gases, is chemically inert.  The major industry use for helium is as a heat-transfer medium in nuclear reactors, as it remains chemically inert and non-radioactive under the radioactive conditions.  It is also used in inert-gas-arc welding for light metals such as aluminum and magnesium alloys that might otherwise oxidize.' where name='Helium';
update items set descr='Mined ore usually made up mostly of water with trace elements of carbon, nitrogen, boron, and lithium.' where name='Ice';
update items set descr='Indium never occurs as a free metal and is usually found as the sulfide In2S3; in certain zinc blendes; and in tungsten, tin, and iron ores.  It is used as an alloying agent with nonferrous metals, in bearing alloys, and in gravitron-reactor control spheres.  Certain indium compounds have unique semi-fluxor properties, and have become an integral constituent of internal housing structures on jumpgates.' where name='Indium';
update items set descr='Iridium is a brittle and extremely hard metal.  It is extremely inert chemically, resisting even the action of aqua regia.  Iridium is used chiefly as an alloying material for platinum; the alloy, containing about 10 percent iridium, is much harder than pure platinum.  Platinum-iridium alloys containing larger percentages of iridium are used in making precision instruments, needle points, surgical lasers and tools.' where name='Iridium';
update items set descr='Metallic iron is believed to have been known and used for ornamental purposes and weapons in prehistoric ages.  It is soft, malleable, and ductile, making it a very versatile material.  Iron is easily magnetized at ordinary temperatures; it is difficult to magnetize when heated.  Pure iron has limited use, and iron is most often used as a primary agent in making tougher and stronger alloys.' where name='Iron';
update items set descr='Laser components consist of basic lenses, emitters, and the like.  These components are used universally in all laser weaponry, and can also be found in a variety of other devices.' where name='Laser Components';
update items set descr='Lithium tarnishes instantaneously and corrodes rapidly upon exposure to air; when it is stored it must be immersed in a liquid such as naphtha.  Important compounds of lithium are used in production of atomic and plasma weaponry.  Lithium carbonate is also used in the treatment of depressive gravity psychosis, common among first-time low-g travelers.' where name='Lithium';
update items set descr='In this age of polymers and metals, lumber has become a relatively unimportant commodity.  Lumber is often used planet side for luxury items, such as furniture and wood carvings, but serves little purpose beyond that.  Certain Quantar clans cling to age old beliefs of tree worship, and consider harvested lumber to be contraband.' where name='Lumber';
update items set descr='Machined parts are components and mechanisms specifically created for specific applications.  Machined parts vary from engine mounts to shield gaskets to precision firing mechanisms.' where name='Machined Parts';
update items set descr='Magnesium is an essential constituent of animal and plant tissue, making it an ideal choice for cybernetic alloys.  Alloyed forms of magnesium have considerable tensile strength.  Alloyed with aluminum or copper, it is used extensively in spacecraft parts and cargo bays, cybernetic limbs, and optical refinement devices.  The unalloyed metal is used in flash grenade powders, incendiary deoxidation bombs, and signal flares.' where name='Magnesium';
update items set descr='Magnetics are invaluable tools, used in a variety of devices.  Magnetic fields are necessary to maintain a stable defensive matrix, commonly found in modern shield design.  Magnetics also have several industrial applications, and are used widely in antigrav equipment and mining apparatus.' where name='Magnetics';
update items set descr='Foods that are synthetically created and genetically engineered to grow in low gravity hydroponics bays or bacteria tanks.  Manufactured foods can be manipulated by skilled chemists to emulate protein rich \'meats\' or even starchy \'pastas\'.  Before the Great Collapse, several Quantar universities offered galaxy renowned courses in culinary chemistry.' where name='Manufactured Foods';
update items set descr='Matter converters are the core component of power plant production.  Matter converters are used to quickly and efficiently convert matter into gravitic energy, allowing fuel conversion from virtually any source available.' where name='Matter Converters';
update items set descr='Whether it be a broken bone or the common cold,  every pilot needs some medical attention from time to time.  Medical supply crates contain everything from bandages to race specific vaccinations and antihistamines.  These crates are valuable no matter where you are in the universe.' where name='Medical Supplies';
update items set descr='Molybdenum is used chiefly in alloying steel.  The alloy withstands high temperatures and pressures and is very strong, making it useful for structural work, gravity drive parts, and solar navy hulls.  Molybdenum wire is used in guided missile systems, and also serves as electrodes in glass furnaces.  The metal form does not occur free in nature, but only in its ores molybdenite and wulfenite.' where name='Molybdenum';
update items set descr='Natural products are materials derived in a variety of ways from living organisms, difficult to replicate synthetically, but highly valued for a wide variety of industrial, pharmaceutical, or luxury purposes.' where name='Natural Products';
update items set descr='Nitrogen is a colorless, odorless, tasteless, nontoxic gas.  It can be condensed into a colorless liquid, which can in turn be compressed into a colorless, crystalline solid.  Primarily used as a coolant, liquid nitrogen has found widespread application in the field of cryogenics and supergravitivity, notably in anti-grav suspensor systems.' where name='Nitrogen';
update items set descr='Only 100 calories per 12 oz. serving, Octavia Light provides a clean and refreshing taste, with a smooth finish.  Be sure to pour Octavia Light into a clear glass that exposes its silky pale gold color which just seems to beckon you to \'forget the half-finished mission, kill the engines, and come hither, overworked one.\'' where name='Octavia Light';
update items set descr='Optics and optical components have a wide range of uses, spanning from advanced laser technology to high-powered telescopes.' where name='Optics';
update items set descr='Food stuffs that originated as animals or plants indigenous to inhabited and life sustaining planets throughout the galaxies.  Many pilots claim to taste the difference between organic and synthetic food stuffs, although there is little or no difference between the two on a cellular level.  Organics are often reserved for high ranking officials and officers.' where name='Organic Foods';
update items set descr='Like platinum, palladium is ductile, malleable, and resistant to corrosion.  It fuses more easily than platinum and can be welded easily.   The chief use of the metal is in the field of low g communications, where it is used to face contacts in gravitational switchgear.  It is also used in dentistry, for coating mirrors, and in jewelry.' where name='Palladium';
update items set descr='Phosphorus exists in three main allotropic (distinctly different) forms: white, red, and black.  The element is important in plant and animal physiology and is a constituent of all animal bones, in the form of calcium phosphate.  Phosphorus compounds are also used in fireproofing.  White phosphorus is used in the making of bugrat poison, and red phosphorus is used in plasma ignition systems.' where name='Phosphorus';
update items set descr='Because of its chemical inertness and high fusing point, platinum is valuable for laboratory apparatus, such as crucibles, tongs, funnels, etc.  Small amounts of iridium are usually added to increase its hardness and durability.  Platinum is also used for contact points in gravitational flux apparatus, and in instruments used for measuring high temperatures.' where name='Platinum';
update items set descr='The silvery plutonium metal gives off heat and is an extremely hazardous poison due to its high radioactivity.  Plutonium readily undergoes both fission and fusion, and is thus primarily used and produced in quantity in nuclear reactors and nuclear weapons.  The isotope plutonium-238 has also been used to power deep space equipment by means of the heat it emits.' where name='Plutonium';
update items set descr='Power converters are a critical component for all sorts of power producing and transfer devices. They allow efficient adjustment of a power input into a mode useful to other equipment.' where name='Power Converters';
update items set descr='Mined ore with the more precious metals such as gold, platinum, silver, iridium, and palladium.' where name='Precious Metals';
update items set descr='If you lose an eye wouldn\'t you want it back?  Prosthetics have saved many a pilot\'s life countless times over, yet they are still a controversy throughout most of the galaxy.  Strangely, many pilots who have used these replacement parts report strong desires to hug a rock forever after…' where name='Prosthetics';
update items set descr='In order to make their missiles more effective, T&P Systems has developed proximity fuses that cause the warhead to detonate when within 50 meters of the target.  This reduces the amount of damage done, but it does not require a direct hit, thus vastly improving the chance of a hit.' where name='Proximity Fuses';
update items set descr='Favorite system wide, Quanus Ice is the taste that started it all.  Deliciously unique and exceptionally different, Quanus Ice has a character as unforgettable as Hamalzah himself.' where name='Quanus Ice';
update items set descr='Mined ore that contains amounts of uranium, cesium, cobalt, plutonium and radium.' where name='Radioactive Metals';
update items set descr='Radium is a silver-white metal that oxidizes immediately upon exposure to air.  The element is used and handled in the form of radium chloride or radium bromide and practically never in the metallic state, other than as a catalyst in plasma based weaponry.  Radiation from radium has a harmful effect upon living cells, and radium burns are caused by overexposure to the rays.' where name='Radium';
update items set descr='Random access memory: the cornerstone of all data storage.  What good is computational power if there\'s nowhere to store the data?  Several gigabytes of RAM are needed to handle the work load found on modern space craft, targeting computers, and exploratory probes.' where name='RAM';
update items set descr='RF transceivers, or radio frequency transceivers, are used universally in communication devices.  RF transceivers are also used in beacon signal emitters, jumpgate radio relay modules, and certain forms of sensory equipment.' where name='RF Transceivers';
update items set descr='Rubber is a synthetic material with a wide range of domestic and industrial purposes.  Rubber is used primarily in capacitors, but is also used in various other products.' where name='Rubber';
update items set descr='Mined ore which contains fluxive elements such as erbium, indium, silicon, and germanium.' where name='Semifluxors';
update items set descr='Silicon is prepared as a brown amorphous powder or as gray-black crystals.  With the exception of oxygen, it is the most abundant and widely distributed of all the elements.  Silicon is a semifluxor.  The ability to control the gravitational properties of silicon, and its abundance in nature, have made possible the re-development of new world gravistors and integrated circuits used in the gravitronics industries.' where name='Silicon';
update items set descr='Silver has been known and valued as a jewelry and coinage metal since the most ancient times.  Silver is a white, extremely lustrous metal, capable of taking a high polish.  The metal is usually alloyed with small amounts of other metals to make it harder and more durable.  Silver is used in several deep space communication devices in conjunction with germanium.' where name='Silver';
update items set descr='When you\'re going all out, Solrain Stout.  Rehydrates and rejuvenates so you can keep giving it everything you got.  Solrain Stout is formulated with all the bold flavor you can handle and an optimal combination of fluid, carbohydrates and minerals.' where name='Solrain Stout';
update items set descr='if you lose an eye wouldn\'t you want it back? synthetic organs have saved many a pilot\'s life countless times over, yet they are still a controversy throughout most of the galaxy. you can\'t help but to feel a shiver run up your spine when you think about your cargo hold filled with jars full of cloned and genetically engineered organs.' where name='Synthetic Organs';
update items set descr='Synthetic materials consist of plastics, polycarbonates, polymers, and the like.  Synthetics are artificially created, and have a wide variety of applications.' where name='Synthetics';
update items set descr='Even in the future people need to wear clothes.  Most of these materials are fire resistant or weather proof and can be used in the production of airtight flight suits or survival gear.' where name='Textiles';
update items set descr='Pure titanium is silver-white in color, soluble in hot water and in sulfuric and hydrofluoric acids, and insoluble in cold water.  The metal is extremely brittle when cold, but malleable and ductile at low red temperatures.  Alloyed with aluminum and vanadium, titanium is used in spacecraft fire walls, navy hulls, docking-gear components, gravitic tubing, and engine supports.' where name='Titanium';
update items set descr='A simple high-explosive device.  TRI pilots began placing these items in their cargo holds as a precaution when pirating equipment became technologically feasible.' where name='Trap';
update items set descr='Uranium has three crystalline forms, of which one is malleable and ductile.  Uranium never occurs naturally in the free state but is found as an oxide or complex salt in minerals such as pitchblende and carnotite.  After the discovery of nuclear fusion, uranium became much less of a strategic metal than in ancient days.  It is still often employed in nuclear weapons, and more recently plasma weapons and power plants.' where name='Uranium';
update items set descr='Vanadium is one of the hardest of all metals, and thus quite valuable.  Because of its hardness and great tensile strength, vanadium metal is used in many alloys.  Titanium-vanadium alloys are used for missile cases, gravity drive housings, and nuclear-reactor components.  As a catalyst, vanadium has largely replaced platinum in the manufacture of plasma gun barreling.' where name='Vanadium';
update items set descr='Water is the life blood of every known species of life in the universe.  Its elegantly simple chemical makeup, versatility, and interesting gravitational properties make it unique among all compounds.  It\'s always a safe bet to invest in water, it will always be needed somewhere.' where name='Water';
update items set descr='TRI\'s standard container for sensitive or classified materials of importance.  Every crate is protected with several security levels which can be fatal to any ne\'er-do-well who tries to crack into one.  Lasers and missiles will prove harmless, in addition, scanners can not penetrate the crate\'s heavy exterior, so don\'t even try.  Repeat: DO NOT ATTEMPT UNAUTHORIZED ACCESS TO TRI CRATES.' where name='X-0013-S';
update items set descr='The X-1901-L is one of TRI\'s standard classified or hazardous materials containers (C/HMCs).  Any one of certain specific substances may be sealed into one of these containers, then transported across the reaches of space.  Improper attempts to open the contents of a C/HMC can result in serious injury, but more likely instant death.  Repeat: DO NOT ATTEMPT UNAUTHORIZED ACCESS TO TRI C/HMCS.' where name='X-1901-L';
update items set descr='The X-3555-L is one of TRI\'s standard classified or hazardous materials containers (C/HMCs). any one of certain specific substances may be sealed into one of these containers, then transported across the reaches of space.  Improper attempts to open the contents of a C/HMC can result in serious injury, but more likely instant death.  Repeat: DO NOT ATTEMPT UNAUTHORIZED ACCESS TO TRI C/HMCS.' where name='X-3555-L';
update items set descr='The X-4533-L is one of TRI\'s standard classified or hazardous materials containers (C/HMCs).  Any one of certain specific substances may be sealed into one of these containers, then transported across the reaches of space.  Improper attempts to open the contents of a C/HMC can result in serious injury, but more likely instant death.  Repeat: DO NOT ATTEMPT UNAUTHORIZED ACCESS TO TRI C/HMCS.' where name='X-4533-L';
update items set descr='The X-7770-L is one of TRI\'s standard classified or hazardous materials containers (C/HMCs).  Any one of certain specific substances may be sealed into one of these containers, then transported across the reaches of space.  Improper attempts to open the contents of a C/HMC can result in serious injury, but more likely instant death.  Repeat: DO NOT ATTEMPT UNAUTHORIZED ACCESS TO TRI C/HMCS.' where name='X-7770-L';
update items set descr='The X-8821-L is one of TRI\'s standard classified or hazardous materials containers (C/HMCs).  Any one of certain specific substances may be sealed into one of these containers, then transported across the reaches of space.  Improper attempts to open the contents of a C/HMC can result in serious injury, but more likely instant death.  Repeat: DO NOT ATTEMPT UNAUTHORIZED ACCESS TO TRI C/HMCS.' where name='X-8821-L';
update items set descr='The X-9450-C is TRI\'s standard method of secure data transmission.  Data is encoded into an optical disc, then transported across the reaches of space to its intended destination.  Attempts to access the information contained on these discs without proper identification can result in wide-scale system meltdowns.  Repeat: DO NOT ATTEMPT UNAUTHORIZED ACCESS TO TRI DATA DISCS.' where name='X-9450-C';
update items set descr='Xenon is a colorless, odorless gas.  Formerly believed to be chemically inert, several compounds of xenon have been prepared.  Xenon is present in the many atmospheres in minute amounts, and in planet and planetoid remnants.  Xenon is used principally in such devices as high-speed plasma-genesis tubes.' where name='Xenon';
update items set descr='Pure zinc is a crystalline metal, insoluble in hot and cold water.  Zinc is extremely brittle, but becomes malleable between 120° and 150°.  The metal is used principally as a galvanizer for iron and steel.  Zinc sulfide is useful in applications involving gravoluminescence, photoconductivity, and semifluxation.  It is also employed as a phosphor for the screens of personal communication devices.' where name='Zinc';
update items set descr='So you\'re ready to sell prosthetics, eh?  And you want a little more than Respect.  Strap yourself in and buy an Adventa.  T&P pulled out all the stops on this one.  Any pilot who wants to do a cargo run from Octavius to Hyperial in a reasonable amount of time will definitely need one (or more) of these.' where name='Adventa';
update items set descr='A powerful but inefficient engine, the Burn is a small upgrade to the Guzzler… small, but still an upgrade.' where name='Burn';
update items set descr='OPL has reportedly incorporated a new technology into the base Burn model, increasing its size, but producing an engine with slightly more power than Aristio\'s \'Rush\'.  However, it is significantly more efficient, the only drawback is the relatively few ships can mount this engine at the time of its release.' where name='Burn Mk.II';
update items set descr='OPL has reportedly incorporated a new technology into the base Burn model, increasing its size, but producing an engine with slightly more power than Aristio\'s \'Rush\'.  However, it is significantly more efficient, the only draw back is the relatively few ships can mount this engine at the time of its release.' where name='Burn Mk II';
update items set descr='After much time, Cromforge has advanced the technology first seen in the Mitoria class engine.  Their second installment represents a much more efficient design, a welcome improvement.' where name='Cardoia';
update items set descr='Designed specifically to power the Cyclone, the Caster will not make your ship the fastest thing in the galaxy.  It does leave plenty of power for shields and weapons, if you are into that sort of thing.' where name='Caster';
update items set descr='Just when it seemed that there was no way to make a more powerful Gravity Driver; Hyperial based Aristio Conglomerated brought out the Dream.  Somehow Hyperial engineering managed to upgrade the Rush by a whopping 15% with only a relatively small increase in size and slight drop in efficiency.  Definitely worth the price.' where name='Dream';
update items set descr='The Guzzler is quite a bit more powerful than the Pusher, but takes up a comparative amount of space.  For the more experienced pilot, it is definitely a good choice.  Whether you are in pursuit or retreat, the Guzzler gets it done.' where name='Guzzler';
update items set descr='While not much of advance in efficiency, the Impeler is an achievement in compact design.  Its big push in a small package makes the modern light and medium fighters possible, though you\'ll want a significant powerplant to feed its hunger for energy.' where name='Impeler';
update items set descr='The Mitoria-S is Quantar\'s stock equipment engine, and is a simplified Mitoria for cheap production purposes.  All Quantar pilots are given this as part of their starter package.  TRI subsidizes production of this model, and therefore it cannot be legally traded or sold for much value.' where name='Mitoria-S';
update items set descr='The Mitoria represents the breakthrough of Cromforge technology which allowed for the efficient use of energy by mixing technological and organic systems.  Although a few advancements have been made on the original Mitoria engine design, it is still the most commonly used small engine in the Quantar fleet.' where name='Mitoria';
update items set descr='Cromforge took the basic Mitoria design, sacrificed some efficiency, and managed to produce this affordable upgrade giving 10% more thrust.' where name='Mitoria Plus';
update items set descr='A fine installment from T&P Systems, the Money is a simple and effective engine.  It provides a pilot with a good amount of thrust while taking up only a moderate amount of space.  Although not appropriate for high speed pursuit or long distance travel, the Money will allow a pilot to explore and trade before investing in a more powerful engine.' where name='Money';
update items set descr='The Oteca is Octavius\'s stock equipment engine, and in a nutshell is a simplified Pusher.  All Octavius pilots are given this as part of their starter package.  TRI subsidizes production of this model, and therefore it cannot be legally traded or sold for much value.' where name='Oteca';
update items set descr='The Propulser takes the design of the Guzzler and kicks it up a notch.  Improved in both power and efficiency, it is sure to find many applications.' where name='Propulser';
update items set descr='Octave Propulsion Labs was created for the sole purpose of advancing engine production technology.  As such, OPL\'s engines keep up with the most powerful in the systems.  Even at the bottom of the heap, the Pusher still puts out quite a bit of power.' where name='Pusher';
update items set descr='Based on the same technology used by the original surface dwellers to free themselves of the bonds of gravity, the Respect represents the core of Solrain thrust technology.  Over the years, T&P has made many modifications to keep this engine contemporary.' where name='Respect';
update items set descr='Hyperial based Aristio Conglomerated pulls ahead of the technology curve once again with the Rush.  A ship equipped with this engine (and a good pilot) can outrun and outmaneuver any obstacle: enemy ships, hostile squid, and asteroid belts included.  For the \'Rush\' of battle, nothing can be better.' where name='Rush';
update items set descr='The S-E-15 is Solrain\'s stock equipment engine, and is basically a simplified Money engine.  All Solrain pilots are given this as part of their starter package.  TRI subsidizes production of this model, and therefore it cannot be legally traded or sold for much value.' where name='S-E-15';
update items set descr='Don\'t be fooled by its meek sounding name.  The Shepherd provides Quantar pilots with over twice the thrust of the Cardoia, albeit with a hit on efficiency.  Even at three times the size and twice the cost, it\'s still a great engine to have.' where name='Shepherd';
update items set descr='When a cache of these huge engines was found on Amananth station, the resourceful Octavian discoverers used their availability as the rationale for the Roc\'s tremendous engine requirement.' where name='Tangent';
update items set descr='This engine allows the average new Solrain pilot to trade weaponry for speed.  It will make a Premia faster, but two of them don\'t leave much power for anything else, at least until your power plant is upgraded.' where name='Travant';
update items set descr='While it is a rather large jump in price from the base Travant, this engine provides very respectable power. The energy costs are typical of many Octavian models, which has raised questions about the source of T&P\'s design.' where name='Travant Plus';
update items set descr='When the major engine manufacturers complained that retooling their production lines for larger engines would be too expensive, TRI R&D simply made the specifications public.  The corporations are now scrambling to compete.' where name='Vector';
update items set descr='Working on the more is better theory, Octave Propulsion Labs cranked up the power (and size) of their basic model to produce a modest range improvement at the cost of serious power drain.' where name='Beholder';
update items set descr='Seeing a market for improved radar that will fit in the base radar mount of most ships, T&P upgraded the Knocker\'s amps and filters, and placed them in the new Chime wave-guide to squeeze out a 20% range improvement.' where name='Chime';
update items set descr='For Octavian pilots who are serious about early detection, the Clarifier is the only answer.  It will detect almost anything, even at medium range.' where name='Clarifier';
update items set descr='Answering the previous question, the answer from Cromforge was no.  The Creeper is almost three times as powerful as the Root, but does take significantly more power.  There are rumors that Cromforge is working on a top secret project known as \'Tanglevine\' which they promise will put the Creeper to shame.' where name='Creeper';
update items set descr='The Cyclops provides the Octavian pilot with enough early detection to make a decision to fight or fly in most cases.  The superior range usually compensates for any nasty surprises, unless you are totally out-gunned that is.' where name='Cyclops';
update items set descr='In an attempt to take some of the market share from Cromforge Enterprises, T&P offered this medium range but reasonably priced detection system.  Like the Hall Monitor, the Doorbell won\'t pick up an Amananth reflector, but it will give you more time to react to surprises by sensing activity further ahead.' where name='Doorbell';
update items set descr='The Echo may have the lowest range of all size 4 radars currently on the market, however its lower mass and power consumption are attractive features of this model.  Overall this is a very good radar for deep space exploration at a bargain price.' where name='Echo';
update items set descr='Harking back to the early days of TRI and Cromforge, the Hall Monitor can provide reasonably accurate information at moderate distances.  With this system in place, a pilot can be confident that he will avoid major ambushes and solar storms.' where name='Hall Monitor';
update items set descr='The Ivy is Cromforge Enterprises\' answer to the demand for more powerful explorer-class radar systems.  Pilots engaged in scouting extensive grids of space or the retrieval of lost pre-collapse wreckage will find this radar very helpful without sacrificing too much power.' where name='Ivy';
update items set descr='T&P added the ability to scan for changes in magnetic fields as well as gravitic, producing a system with great range in comparison to its modest power consumption.' where name='Knocker';
update items set descr='Giving in to customer demands, Cromforge produced this radar with a very good range/size ratio, but was forced to abandon their design hallmark: efficiency.  The result, however, give Quantar pilots of all sorts much earlier warning of threats, and thus time to slip away with a load of ore, or time to set up to ambush an unsuspecting foe.' where name='Liana';
update items set descr='As part of TRI\'s free enterprise experiment, specifications for this standard radar were made public.  Agreements with T&&P forced the Night Watchman base price below that of the Echo.' where name='Night Watchman';
update items set descr='Amananth Nubblers began quietly appearing in equipment bays as the Conflux war began heating up.  Amananth again eerily delivers the high-end gear TRI needs.' where name='Nubbler';
update items set descr='The Outlook is Octavius\'s stock equipment radar, and in a nutshell is a modified Cyclops.  All Octavius pilots are given this as part of their starter package.  TRI subsidizes production of this model, and therefore it cannot be legally traded or sold for much value.' where name='Outlook';
update items set descr='Due to Quantar\'s proximity to the Venure Belt, radar technology focuses on efficient energy use as opposed to great maximum range.  This will do little to comfort a Quantar pilot in the Sea of Shadows, but that\'s the price to pay for efficiency, right?' where name='Root';
update items set descr='The S-R-9 is Solrain\'s stock equipment radar, and is basically a modified Hall Monitor.  All Solrain pilots are given this as part of their starter package.  TRI subsidizes production of this model, and therefore it cannot be legally traded or sold for much value.' where name='S-R-9';
update items set descr='Octave Propulsion Labs\' Sentinel radar system is the preferred choice of scout pilots who need to patrol large areas of space.  While it consumes more power and has a higher mass than its contemporaries, this radar is still preferred because of its superior range.' where name='Sentinel';
update items set descr='The Sentry incorporates fine pitch phased-array elements to increase detection range compared with other OPL products, while requiring only modestly more power.  A worthy investment for anyone who feels the Cyclops\' vision lacks depth.' where name='Sentry';
update items set descr='Quantar engineers decided to experiment with a low power UV laser imager to enhance the range of their standard radar, resulting in this model, with respectable range, and extremely low power usage.' where name='Vine';
update items set descr='The Wayfinder is Quantar\'s stock equipment radar, and is a modified Root for cheap production purposes.  All Quantar pilots are given this as part of their starter package.  TRI subsidizes production of this model, and therefore it cannot be legally traded or sold for much value.' where name='Wayfinder';
